Add INP breakdown timings and LoAF attribution (#442)
GoogleChrome/web-vitals: README.md

```ts
interface INPAttribution {
  /**

>    * A selector identifying the element that the user first interacted with

Author: Good catch. I'll update this to be the the first entry in processing order with both a `target` and an `interactionId` property.

>    * as part of the frame where the INP candidate interaction occurred.

Author: Good call. I've tried to use that everywhere now (at least in any comments that are part of the JSDocs).

   * If `interactionTarget` is an empty string, that generally means the

>    * element was removed from the DOM as part of the interaction.

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is 100% accurate (though maybe "generally" gives us enough leeway).

We've seen instances where the empty string is returned. Plus we're planning on recording this even if it is removed from the DOM (what's the latest on that @mmocny ?)

Author: I think we should stick to my current wording. I don't think we need to document all scenarios that could lead to an empty string. The main thing I want to make sure is clear is that the string CAN be empty (e.g. this value won't always have a selector).

   */

>   interactionTarget: string;

Author: I think they were originally optional because INP could be zero if interactionCount was greater than 0 but no event entries were dispatched. However, once we started also observing `first-input` entries, I think they should always be set.

  /**
   * The time when the user first interacted during the frame where the INP
   * candidate interaction occurred (if more than one interaction occurred
   * within the frame, only the first time is reported).
   */
  interactionTime: number;
  /**
   * The type of interaction. This will be either 'pointer' or 'keyboard'
   * since those are the only types of interactions considered for INP.
   */

>   interactionType: 'pointer' | 'keyboard';

Author: This is to better align with what's shown in DevTools. Also, since now there's no single `eventEntry` that is reported, it doesn't make sense to expose a single event type.

Author: > what about cases where the second interaction in the frame was the one that contributed the most processing time, and so was really "the longest"? Could that occasionally be confusing?

I do think it could be confusing, but I think that's a general problem/challenge with the INP definition and not something specific to this library.

That said, with the changes in this PR it should be possible for a developer to determine what other events were processed in the same animation frame, so hopefully that addresses the root of your concern.

  /**
   * If the browser supports the Long Animation Frame API and a
   * `long-animation-frame` entry is detected that corresponds to the INP
   * frame, it will be reported here.
   */

>   longAnimationFrameEntry?: PerformanceLongAnimationFrameTiming;

Reviewer 2: Multiple LoAFs can overlap with the INP window, so does limiting this to just one make sense?

Author: @mmocny I know you said you wouldn't expect an arbitrary length list of LoAFs, but what would you think about an array of LoAFs that intersect with [startTime, processingEnd]?

That's a bit more awkward than a single LoAF, but it has the benefit that it gives developers all the information about what scripts are blocking INP (for both input delay and processing time).

If we only want to expose a single LoAF then I think the reasonable options are to pick either:
1. The longest LoAF (@tunetheweb's original proposal), or
2. The LoAF that intersects with [processingStart, processingEnd]

WDYT?

Author: We discussed this a bit internally and agreed that it makes the most sense to now expose an array of LoAF entries, and with my most recent changes that array will include any LoAF entry that intersects with [startTime, processingEnd] for the INP candidate interaction. @mmocny I'll tag you into that part of the code so you can take a lok.

Reviewer 3: The loaf that intersects with processingStart / processingEnd I would consider "the" LoAF for this Interaction, and it feels uniquely important vs just a list of all of them.

Maybe if we returned the list in reverse chronological order (which matches order of importance) that would be fine.

---

The one single preceding LoAF might well be useful for debugging input delay.

However, an long string of preceding LoAFs that overlap startTime, I think are more likely to be red-herrings.

Input Delay is only affected by Tasks/LoAFs when the event is already queued on the main thread (and so blocking processingStart).  But startTime is based on hardware timeStamp, and the event can be stuck in hardware, or platform, or browser process... in this case LoAFs aren't actually related.

Once the event is on the main thread, it is scheduled with the HIGHEST priority and there cannot be a case where we somehow do multiple animation frames before deciding to schedule the event processing.

Unless I'm overlooking something ;)

Of course, that is based on today's specifics implementation details of Chromium.  It's already different on Firefox, though they don't report LoAF, anyway.

---

I would personally prefer:
- A single LoAF for "the" frame
- A list of extra LoAF, for Input Delay

...but we try to constrain that list to our best guess of what actually affected the interaction, based on platform and version, and can start with the single most recent LoAF that is `event.startTime <= loaf.endTime < event.processingStart` or something.

But I would also be fine with just a single list, especially in reverse chronological order.

Reviewer: > The loaf that intersects with processingStart / processingEnd I would consider "the" LoAF for this Interaction, and it feels uniquely important vs just a list of all of them.

I don't get why that's the important one rather than the longest one?

Like if you had a 200ms input delay (e.g. due to a long rAF) and then 10ms event handler I don't see why the event handler LoAF is "the" LoAF for the interaction as apposed to the one that actually caused the delay?

Though I do agree the event handler one is likely to be the longest one in most cases so maybe a bit of a moot point.

> I would personally prefer:
>
> - A single LoAF for "the" frame
> - A list of extra LoAF, for Input Delay

I definitely prefer a single list. It's all complicated enough and think most people are likely to just pull out the script info rather than do any deep diving in to the other LoAF info anyway. So one list just makes it less complicated.

Author: > The one single preceding LoAF might well be useful for debugging input delay.
> 
> However, an long string of preceding LoAFs that overlap startTime, I think are more likely to be red-herrings.

In all of the testing I did for this, I never once saw more than 2 LoAF entries reported in the array. Can there really be  a string of long preceding LoAFs? If so, do you have any suggestions for how I can repro that, because I'd also want to test that scenario.

Reviewer 3: I think that you can only have 1 single "Main thread input delay" LoAF and 1 single "Main thread processing" LoAF, and sometimes those are even the same LoAF.

But you can in theory have variable length extra LoAF for non-main thread input delay.  These LoAFs are red-herring and should just be ignored, but if you naively use startTime as the filter, you will include them.

So the question becomes, how can you force non-main thread input delay?

---

One way is the 300ms non-mobile-viewport tap-delay thing.  You click event will have a really large non-main input delay.  If you happen to have LoAFs on main, those would get reported-- but these aren't the cause of the delay.

Another way on MacOS that is somewhat consistent is to use native drag & drop (highlight and drag text, or drag an image) which causes browser-side jank often delaying event dispatch.  Again, if you happen to also have LoAFs at that time, those would overlap but wouldn't really be the cause.

More generally, you cannot force these types of delays consistently, because that only happens with system jank.  And we try hard not to Jank browser main thread, but it does still happen all the time.

Author: I suppose another option could be to keep this as an array, but expose a max of 1 that overlaps with processing and then 1 that overlaps with input delay (the last one, chronologically). So a max length of 2 total.

As a meta comment, at this point I'd rather pick an API shape that is flexible for future additions and unlikely to require breaking changes if we want to add anything. I think there's a higher chance that we later decide that individual LoAF entries doesn't give developers everything they need than if we offer an array of intersecting entries.

   */
  nextPaintTime: DOMHighResTimeStamp;

  /**
   * The type of interaction. This will be either 'pointer' or 'keyboard'
   * since those are the only types of interactions considered for INP.
   */

>   interactionType: string;

Reviewer: Same comment as above.

Author: Good catch, thanks!

  /**
   * The time from when the first event listener started running in response to

>    * a user interaction until when all processing code has finished running,

Author: The most recent changes only includes event processing time.

   * and the browser is able to start rendering the next frame. If the user
   * interacts again before processing has finished (which is common if event
   * processing takes a long time), then any event processing time from
   * subsequent interactions could get included in this processing time value
   * since that delays the next paint for this interaction. If multiple
   * interactions occur within the same frame, only the first interaction is
   * considered for INP since it will be the longest.
   *
   * Note: if a `long-animation-frame` entry was detected for this frame

>    * its `renderStart` property will be used to mark the `processingTime`

Author: As mentioned in other comments, I reverted this logic to just include that actual event processing time in the `processingTime` phase.

   */
  longAnimationFrameEntries: PerformanceLongAnimationFrameTiming[];

  /**
   * The time from when the user interacted with the page until when the
   * browser was first able to start processing event listeners for that
   * interaction. This time captures the delay before event processing can
   * begin due to the main thread being busy with other work.
   */
  inputDelay: number;

  /**
   * The time from when the first event listener started running in response to

>    * the user interaction until when all event processing has finished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * the user interaction until when all event listener processing has finished.
```

   */
  processingTime: number;

  /**

>    * The time from when the browser finished processing all events for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * The time from when the browser finished processing all event listeners for the
```

Arguable the subsequent processing of the rendering is part of "processing the event", but not the "event listener [JavaScript code]". Trying to think of a nice way of putting it without adding the full "event listener JavaScript code" but think just saying the "event listener" captures that in a way that's reasonably clear, but not too verbose. WDYT?

Author: Yeah, I think so. Good call.
